IDEAS:
Chinese researchers dealt with forest networks
Attempt either individual inputs for the products, or stack them in one input
Further train the pretrained CNN?
Use velocity gate trick to find areas of interest. If none found, break input into 50x50. Remove unlikely 50x50s. Pass remaining through.
If multiple gates found, pass all through and take strongest of each
If no gates found, pass all through and take strongest of both.

Pre-processing methods:
identify horizontal bands within velocity that indicate interferance, interpolate them.
normalise each product
implement "the national severe storms laboratory tornado detection algorithm" to find areas of interest (use both tilts?)
calculate how effective it is at finding areas in confirmed tornado scans
center 50x50 chunk on that area, train with that. In instance without any detected and is of type 0, use random 50x50 chunk

https://nomads.ncep.noaa.gov/pub/data/nccf/radar/nexrad_level2/KLTX/ - live radar imagery
Use this to make a tool to select a 100x100(?) pixel area on a scan, which is then transformed to an input for the first NN. Output of that is fed to 2nd NN.
bz2 format can be extracted by this https://www.npmjs.com/package/nexrad-level-2-data extremely useful package

otherwise, take the scan and set areas of low precip, and low velocity to 0. Maybe investigate clustering to identify pixels related to velocity couplets
simpler setup, pre-process each batch then feed it through nn. compare to without to see if its better.


!!IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER!!
activate correct python before going: pyenv shell 3.11.13

in tornet_dataset_builder, you've made it so each scan only uses the last frame. can be increased to 4 if more data needed. Do remember to make sure sequential scans arent given as training, and they're jumbled up.

gaussian smoothing actually made performance go down, can maybe try to remove and see if it improves/change to nearest neighbour

could use range folded mask in the future. Remember data is already de-aliased, so for training this wont be a problem. If using inference with data not selected from the dataset, will have to dealias as well

could use tornado heavy subsample in the future

could use ordinal regression over softmax for intensity classification



Log:
added testing with accuracy/precision/recall/f1 to evaluate tor prob prediction head, and quadratic kappa for intensity classifier head
weird situation where some inputs were all nan, and some dbz inputs were malformed with negatives and nans
biased towards true positives, as there are not many of those and are IMPORTANT
made loss matter more from prob head compared to classifier head
biased classifier head along, to be weighted according to the number of examples of each in the dataset. set ef5 to 1 to avoid /0 errors
added label smoothing, and tried kl divergence to attempt to get it to do better in classifying (since ef2 might as well be an ef1), however wasnt possible
added gaussian smoothing to smooth over missing velocity data. uses dbz as a mask, so only missing velocity data that has a corresponding >20 dbz gets smoothed view algorithm for details
removed all data from matrices where dbz < 20, made above more efficient
removed sidelobe velocity artefacts before smoothing, where velocity was set to +-max 
changed sidelobe strategy, where now it detects data where a data point is greater than the sum of its neighbours, its averaged across those 4
added the removal of the velocity artefacts again
get gate to gate shear, mark them, mask around them, or mask just the storm, pass the mask as a new input stacked on the 3 separate inputs
increased depth of the model significantly, use maxpooling becasue we're interested in preserving extreme values. Starts off with small kernels, becasue we want to preserve small features. Gradually get larger and very general 5 and 7 sized filters for shared conv layers
added dropout layers to help with overfitting, was probably too much in the end. big dataset = unlikely to overfit. reduced.
changed to stacked inputs
added two immediate conv2d layers, which should help grasp the smaller features, then used stride = 2 for trainable compression, as fine details are required
possibly multiplied feature map by mask to ensure its being adhered to
note: if not good, remove double stacked conv blocks, and put relu and batchnorm between them. worst case scenario do the balanced training
added bespoke trainer, trains until f1 doesnt improve for 2 epochs in a row